🛡️ Project Handbook: HVN System Monitor
Developer: Hanre van Niekerk
Tech Stack: Linux (Bash) + Python 3 + Git/GitHub
Environment: Kali Linux / VM / Win-KeX

1. Executive Summary
The HVN System Monitor is a professional-grade, lightweight infrastructure tool. 
It provides a "single-pane-of-glass" view of server health by combining the raw power of Linux shell scripting with the analytical logic of Python.
Core Philosophy:
Modular: Scripts are separated into "Collectors" and "Parsers."
Lightweight: No database required. It runs entirely in memory.
Secure: Specifically monitors unauthorized access and network vulnerabilities.

2. How the System Works (The "Hybrid" Architecture)
I chose a Hybrid Approach because it leverages the best features of two different languages.
Layer A: The Collectors (Bash)
The "Sensors": These scripts interact directly with the Linux kernel.
Why Bash? It is the native language of the server. 
It has the fastest access to tools like top (CPU), df (Disk), and ss (Network).

Layer B: The Parsers (Python)
The "Brain": These scripts receive raw text from the sensors.
Why Python? It is better at "thinking." 
It handles string manipulation and mathematical thresholds (e.g., Is 85% usage too high?) much more accurately than Bash.

3. Key Components (The 4 Pillars)
Monitor        Tool Used        Business Value
CPU Usage      top              Prevents server "freezing" by tracking processing load.
Disk Health    df               Prevents data loss by ensuring storage doesn't hit 100%.
Network Audit  ss               Security: Detects if a hacker has opened a new port.
Auth Security  auth.log         Security: Detects Brute-Force login attacks in real-time.

4. Developer Skills & Professional Growth
By completing this project, I have mastered several high-level developer competencies:
Systems Integration: Learning how to "pipe" data between different programming languages.
Version Control (Git): Managing code professionally via GitHub, ensuring the project is backed up and version-tracked.
Security Mindset: Building tools that don't just track performance, but also look for threats.
Automation: Reducing 10 minutes of manual server checking into a 1-second command.

5. Live Demonstration Instructions
To show the system in action, I execute the "Master Runner" script:

Command: ./run-all.sh
Expected Output:
Plaintext
--- HVN SYSTEM STATUS ---
[OK] CPU Usage: 12.5%
[OK] Disk Usage: 45%
[OK] Network Ports Clean
[CRITICAL] Auth Failures: 12  <-- (This alerts us to action!)

6. Rapid Deployment (Scaleability)
Tool: setup.sh
Function: Automates the environment configuration, folder creation, and permissions.
Benefit: Allows for instant scaling. If the company adds more VMs, the HVN monitor can be deployed to all of them in seconds using a single command.

7. Future Roadmap (The Next Steps)
This project is built to grow. 
My next planned upgrades include:
Automated Email Alerts: 
Sending an email if a check returns "CRITICAL."
Visual Logs: Storing history in a text-based log file for weekly audits.
Dashboard Integration: Exporting data to a web-based view.
